add `redirect_uri` to Credential Offer (#759)
openid/OpenID4VCI: 1.1/openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_1.md

Author: ```suggestion
(1b) The Issuer-initiated flow begins as the Credential Issuer generates a Credential Offer for certain Credential(s) that it communicates to the Wallet, for example, as a QR code or as a URI. The Credential Offer contains the Credential Issuer's URL, information about the Credential(s) being offered and an optional Redirect URL. This step is defined in (#credential-offer).
```

If the Credential Issuer requires more time to issue a Credential, the Credential Issuer may return a Transaction ID and a time interval in the Credential Response. The Wallet may send a Deferred Credential Request with the Transaction ID to obtain a Credential after the specified time interval has passed, as defined in (#deferred-credential-issuance).

> (7) If the Credential Offer contained a `redirect_uri` parameter (#credential-offer-parameters), the Wallet should offer the End-User to navigate the User Agent back to the Credential Issuer, for example, to return to the Credential Issuer's website. This redirect is OPTIONAL, is performed only upon explicit End-User interaction, and happens regardless of whether the issuance succeeded or failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(7) If the Credential Offer contained a `redirect_uri` parameter (#credential-offer-parameters), the Wallet SHOULD navigate the User Agent to this URL after it has finished processing the Credential Offer, e.g. to return to the Credential Issuer's website. The Wallet SHOULD do this regardless of whether the issuance succeeded, failed, was cancelled or entered a pending state. The Issuer MUST NOT rely on the redirect occurring for successful issuance. 
```

> (7) If the Credential Offer contained a `redirect_uri` parameter (#credential-offer-parameters), the Wallet SHOULD navigate the User Agent to this URL after it has finished processing the Credential Offer, e.g. to return to the Credential Issuer's website. The Wallet SHOULD do this regardless of whether the issuance succeeded, failed, was cancelled or entered a pending state. The Issuer MUST NOT rely on the redirect occurring for successful issuance. 

Reviewer 2: I don't think some of this text should actually be here - this section doesn't contain any other normative keywords. It should probably be removed from here as the same text is already in the definition of the redirect_uri parameter.

Author: I would change them to lower-case words, as "may" is also used in (6)

Reviewer 2: That would be okay but I think I'd try to reduce the text for this bullet a reasonable amount as I think the exact text is found in the redirect_uri definition and stating the detail only once is better in my opinion (and reduces the chance that the two drift into saying contradicting things).

Author: ```suggestion
(7) The Wallet may navigate the User Agent to the Credential Issuer's Redirect URL if it was contained in the Credential Offer.
```

      * `input_mode` : OPTIONAL. String specifying the input character set. Possible values are `numeric` (only digits) and `text` (any characters). The default is `numeric`.
      * `length`: OPTIONAL. Integer specifying the length of the Transaction Code. This helps the Wallet to render the input screen and improve the user experience.
      * `description`: OPTIONAL. String containing guidance for the Holder of the Wallet on how to obtain the Transaction Code, e.g., describing over which communication channel it is delivered. The Wallet is RECOMMENDED to display this description next to the Transaction Code input screen to improve the user experience. The length of the string MUST NOT exceed 300 characters. The `description` does not support internationalization, however the Issuer MAY detect the Holder's language by previous communication or an HTTP Accept-Language header within an HTTP GET request for a Credential Offer URI.

>     * `authorization_server`: OPTIONAL string that the Wallet can use to identify the Authorization Server to use with this grant type when `authorization_servers` parameter in the Credential Issuer metadata has multiple entries. It MUST NOT be used otherwise. The value of this parameter MUST match with one of the values in the `authorization_servers` array obtained from the Credential Issuer metadata.

Author: for reviews: this part is only moved upwards

> * `redirect_uri`: OPTIONAL. String that is a URL using the `https` scheme. If present, the Wallet SHOULD navigate the User Agent to this URL after it has finished processing the Credential Offer, e.g. to return to the Credential Issuer's website. The Wallet SHOULD do this regardless of whether the issuance succeeded or failed. The Wallet MAY ask the End-User for consent. Because the Credential Offer is not authenticated (see (#credential-offer-security)), the Wallet MUST validate this value against the `expected_redirect_origin` Credential Issuer metadata parameter as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters) and MUST ignore the `redirect_uri` if the validation fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `redirect_uri`: OPTIONAL. String that is a URL using the `https` scheme. If present, the Wallet SHOULD navigate the User Agent to this URL after it has finished processing the Credential Offer, e.g. to return to the Credential Issuer's website. The Wallet SHOULD do this regardless of whether the issuance succeeded, failed, was cancelled or entered a pending state. The Issuer MUST NOT rely on the redirect occurring for successful issuance. The Wallet MAY ask the End-User for consent before navigating. Because the Credential Offer is not authenticated (see (#credential-offer-security)), the Wallet MUST validate this value against the `expected_redirect_origin` Credential Issuer metadata parameter as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters) and MUST ignore the `redirect_uri` if the validation fails.
```

> * `redirect_uri`: OPTIONAL. String that is a URL using the `https` scheme. If present, the Wallet SHOULD navigate the User Agent to this URL after it has finished processing the Credential Offer, e.g. to return to the Credential Issuer's website. The Wallet SHOULD do this regardless of whether the issuance succeeded or failed. The Wallet MAY ask the End-User for consent. Because the Credential Offer is not authenticated (see (#credential-offer-security)), the Wallet MUST validate this value against the `expected_redirect_origin` Credential Issuer metadata parameter as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters) and MUST ignore the `redirect_uri` if the validation fails.

Reviewer 3: To clarify what is being consented to:
```suggestion
* `redirect_uri`: OPTIONAL. String that is a URL using the `https` scheme. If present, the Wallet SHOULD navigate the User Agent to this URL after it has finished processing the Credential Offer, e.g. to return to the Credential Issuer's website. The Wallet SHOULD do this regardless of whether the issuance succeeded or failed. The Wallet MAY ask the End-User for consent before navigating. Because the Credential Offer is not authenticated (see (#credential-offer-security)), the Wallet MUST validate this value against the `expected_redirect_origin` Credential Issuer metadata parameter as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters) and MUST ignore the `redirect_uri` if the validation fails.
```

> * `redirect_uri`: OPTIONAL. String that is a URL using the `https` scheme. If present, the Wallet SHOULD offer the End-User the option to navigate the User Agent to this URL after it has finished processing the Credential Offer, e.g. to return to the Credential Issuer's website. The Wallet SHOULD offer this option regardless of whether the issuance succeeded or failed. The Wallet SHOULD NOT navigate to this URL without explicit End-User consent. Because the Credential Offer is not authenticated (see (#credential-offer-security)), the Wallet MUST validate this value against the `expected_redirect_origin` Credential Issuer metadata parameter as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters) and MUST ignore the `redirect_uri` if the validation fails.

Author: ```suggestion
* `redirect_uri`: OPTIONAL. String that is a URL using the `https` scheme. If present, the Wallet SHOULD navigate the User Agent to this URL after it has finished processing the Credential Offer, e.g. to return to the Credential Issuer's website. The Wallet SHOULD do this regardless of whether the issuance succeeded or failed. The Wallet MAY ask the End-User for consent. Because the Credential Offer is not authenticated (see (#credential-offer-security)), the Wallet MUST validate this value against the `expected_redirect_origin` Credential Issuer metadata parameter as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters) and MUST ignore the `redirect_uri` if the validation fails.
```

> * `redirect_uri`: OPTIONAL. String that is a URL using the `https` scheme. If present, the Wallet SHOULD navigate the User Agent to this URL after it has finished processing the Credential Offer, e.g. to return to the Credential Issuer's website. The Wallet SHOULD do this regardless of whether the issuance succeeded, failed, was canceled or entered a pending state. The Issuer MUST NOT rely on the redirect occurring. The Wallet MAY ask the End-User for consent before navigating. Because the Credential Offer is not authenticated (see (#credential-offer-security)), the Wallet MUST validate this value against the `expected_redirect_origin` Credential Issuer metadata parameter as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters) and MUST ignore the `redirect_uri` if the validation fails.

Author: ```suggestion
* `redirect_uri`: OPTIONAL. String that is a URL using the `https` scheme. If present, the Wallet SHOULD navigate the User Agent to this URL after it has finished processing the Credential Offer, e.g. to return to the Credential Issuer's website. The Wallet SHOULD do this regardless of whether the issuance succeeded, failed, was canceled or entered deferred state. The Issuer MUST NOT rely on the redirect occurring. The Wallet MAY ask the End-User for consent before navigating. Because the Credential Offer is not authenticated (see (#credential-offer-security)), the Wallet MUST validate this value against the `expected_redirect_origin` Credential Issuer metadata parameter as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters) and MUST ignore the `redirect_uri` if the validation fails.
```

> * `redirect_uri`: OPTIONAL. String that is a URL using the `https` scheme. If present, the Wallet SHOULD navigate the User Agent of the Wallet's device to this URL after it has finished processing the Credential Offer, e.g. to return to the Credential Issuer's website. The Wallet SHOULD do this regardless of whether the issuance succeeded, failed, was canceled or entered deferred state. The Issuer MUST NOT rely on the redirect occurring. The Wallet MAY ask the End-User for consent before navigating. Because the Credential Offer is not authenticated (see (#credential-offer-security)), the Wallet MUST validate this value against the `expected_redirect_origins` Credential Issuer metadata parameter as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters) and MUST ignore the `redirect_uri` if the validation fails.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `redirect_uri`: OPTIONAL. String that is a URL using the `https` scheme. If present, the Wallet SHOULD navigate the User Agent of the Wallet's device to this URL after the issuance flow initiated by the the Credential Offer has concluded, e.g. to return to the Credential Issuer's website. The Wallet SHOULD do this regardless of whether the issuance succeeded, failed, was canceled or entered deferred state. The Issuer MUST NOT rely on the redirect occurring. The Wallet MAY ask the End-User for consent before navigating. Because the Credential Offer is not authenticated (see (#credential-offer-security)), the Wallet MUST validate this value against the `expected_redirect_origins` Credential Issuer metadata parameter as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters) and MUST ignore the `redirect_uri` if the validation fails.
```

> * `redirect_uri`: OPTIONAL. String that is a URL using the `https` scheme. If present, the Wallet SHOULD navigate the User Agent to this URL after it has finished processing the Credential Offer, e.g. to return to the Credential Issuer's website. The Wallet SHOULD do this regardless of whether the issuance succeeded, failed, was cancelled or entered a pending state. The Issuer MUST NOT rely on the redirect occurring for successful issuance. The Wallet MAY ask the End-User for consent before navigating. Because the Credential Offer is not authenticated (see (#credential-offer-security)), the Wallet MUST validate this value against the `expected_redirect_origin` Credential Issuer metadata parameter as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters) and MUST ignore the `redirect_uri` if the validation fails.

Reviewer 2: I think this is a more general sentence? The issuer shouldn't rely it on it all, for neither successful nor failed issuance. Also, Americans.

```suggestion
* `redirect_uri`: OPTIONAL. String that is a URL using the `https` scheme. If present, the Wallet SHOULD navigate the User Agent to this URL after it has finished processing the Credential Offer, e.g. to return to the Credential Issuer's website. The Wallet SHOULD do this regardless of whether the issuance succeeded, failed, was canceled or entered a pending state. The Issuer MUST NOT rely on the redirect occurring. The Wallet MAY ask the End-User for consent before navigating. Because the Credential Offer is not authenticated (see (#credential-offer-security)), the Wallet MUST validate this value against the `expected_redirect_origin` Credential Issuer metadata parameter as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters) and MUST ignore the `redirect_uri` if the validation fails.
```

> * `redirect_uri`: OPTIONAL. String that is a URL using the `https` scheme. If present, the Wallet SHOULD navigate the User Agent to this URL after it has finished processing the Credential Offer, e.g. to return to the Credential Issuer's website. The Wallet SHOULD do this regardless of whether the issuance succeeded, failed, was cancelled or entered a pending state. The Issuer MUST NOT rely on the redirect occurring for successful issuance. The Wallet MAY ask the End-User for consent before navigating. Because the Credential Offer is not authenticated (see (#credential-offer-security)), the Wallet MUST validate this value against the `expected_redirect_origin` Credential Issuer metadata parameter as defined in (#credential-issuer-parameters) and MUST ignore the `redirect_uri` if the validation fails.

Reviewer 2: "the" User Agent probably isn't correct.  In the cross device case it definitely won't be the user agent that was used earlier in the flow, and even in the same device case that isn't guaranteed.

Not sure exactly what it should say. It's probably sensible to make some recommendation about launching in the system browser vs using an in-app browser tab, but I don't know what is best.

Reviewer 3: I think: 1) rewrite to just say "a User Agent". 2). Recommend system browser (so we can go back to that if we were there before.

In the cross-device case, I expect most people would not use this `redirect_uri` and instead just keep going in the original user agent.

Author: I understand that "the user agent" doesn't work for cross device. We could say "the Wallet's user agent", which should match to same and cross-device flow? I believe the redirect_uri makes only sense to system browser

Author: I updated with the following text: "If present, the Wallet SHOULD navigate **the User Agent of the Wallet's device** to this URL after it has finished processing the Credential Offer"

> 

Reviewer 2: > after it has finished processing the Credential Offer

> The Wallet SHOULD do this regardless of whether the issuance succeeded, failed, was cancelled or entered a pending state.

These statement feels quite ambiguous. 'pending state' we don't use anywhere else in the spec and I think could be clearer (I presume it might be referring to deferred issuance, but not sure if it's intended to encompass other things too). 'finished processing the Credential Offer' feels like it doesn't really match with 'issuance succeeded'.

Reviewer 3: I agree on credential offer.

For the various states, is there a reason to not just say "in all cases" instead of listing them out?

Author: I modified the text, exchanged "pending state" with deferred to align the terminology

* `nonce_endpoint`: OPTIONAL. URL of the Credential Issuer's Nonce Endpoint, as defined in (#nonce-endpoint). This URL MUST use the `https` scheme and MAY contain port, path, and query parameter components. If omitted, the Credential Issuer does not require the use of `c_nonce`.
* `deferred_credential_endpoint`: OPTIONAL. URL of the Credential Issuer's Deferred Credential Endpoint, as defined in (#deferred-credential-issuance). This URL MUST use the `https` scheme and MAY contain port, path, and query parameter components. If omitted, the Credential Issuer does not support the Deferred Credential Endpoint.
* `notification_endpoint`: OPTIONAL. URL of the Credential Issuer's Notification Endpoint, as defined in (#notification-endpoint). This URL MUST use the `https` scheme and MAY contain port, path, and query parameter components. If omitted, the Credential Issuer does not support the Notification Endpoint.

> * `expected_redirect_origin`: REQUIRED if the Credential Issuer uses the `redirect_uri` Credential Offer parameter (#credential-offer-parameters), and otherwise omitted. A non-empty array of strings, where each string is an origin, as defined in [@RFC6454], that the Credential Issuer may use in the `redirect_uri` of the Credential Offer. If a Credential Offer contains a `redirect_uri`, the Wallet MUST NOT utilize it unless the origin of the `redirect_uri` matches one of the values in this array. If this parameter is omitted, the Wallet MUST ignore any `redirect_uri` present in a Credential Offer from this Credential Issuer.

Reviewer 2: Should probably be plural as it's an array? and this is a normative reference I think, so `!`

```suggestion
* `expected_redirect_origins`: REQUIRED if the Credential Issuer uses the `redirect_uri` Credential Offer parameter (#credential-offer-parameters), and otherwise omitted. A non-empty array of strings, where each string is an origin, as defined in [@!RFC6454], that the Credential Issuer may use in the `redirect_uri` of the Credential Offer. If a Credential Offer contains a `redirect_uri`, the Wallet MUST NOT utilize it unless the origin of the `redirect_uri` matches one of the values in this array. If this parameter is omitted, the Wallet MUST ignore any `redirect_uri` present in a Credential Offer from this Credential Issuer.
```

Reviewer 3: Makes sense to me.

Author: applied

> * `expected_redirect_origin`: REQUIRED if the Credential Issuer uses the `redirect_uri` Credential Offer parameter (#credential-offer-parameters), and otherwise omitted. A non-empty array of strings, where each string is an origin, as defined in [@RFC6454], that the Credential Issuer may use in the `redirect_uri` of the Credential Offer. If a Credential Offer contains a `redirect_uri`, the Wallet MUST NOT utilize it unless the origin of the `redirect_uri` matches one of the values in this array. If this parameter is omitted, the Wallet MUST ignore any `redirect_uri` present in a Credential Offer from this Credential Issuer.

Reviewer 2: If we start from what I believe is the intended attacker model (that the attacker can modify the credential offer)  then only authenticating the origin feels very lenient. e.g. if `https://www.microsoft.com` was listed here I'd be pretty certain there's some url somewhere on the website that I can sent the user to as useful part of some wider phishing attack or similar.

Reviewer 3: Would you propose registering the domain + path instead? I think that would probably be fine by me. Does someone have an issue with that?

Author: I had a discussion with @GarethCOliver and @c2bo at IETF on this topic and we believe it's better to use origins than URLs, I added a security consideration instead

> * `expected_redirect_origins`: REQUIRED if the Credential Issuer uses the `redirect_uri` Credential Offer parameter (#credential-offer-parameters), and otherwise omitted. A non-empty array of strings, where each string is an origin, as defined in [@RFC6454], that the Credential Issuer may use in the `redirect_uri` of the Credential Offer. If a Credential Offer contains a `redirect_uri`, the Wallet MUST NOT utilize it unless the origin of the `redirect_uri` matches one of the values in this array. If this parameter is omitted, the Wallet MUST ignore any `redirect_uri` present in a Credential Offer from this Credential Issuer.

Author: ```suggestion
* `expected_redirect_origins`: REQUIRED if the Credential Issuer uses the `redirect_uri` Credential Offer parameter (#credential-offer-parameters), and otherwise omitted. A non-empty array of strings, where each string is an origin, as defined in [!@RFC6454], that the Credential Issuer may use in the `redirect_uri` of the Credential Offer. If a Credential Offer contains a `redirect_uri`, the Wallet MUST NOT utilize it unless the origin of the `redirect_uri` matches one of the values in this array. If this parameter is omitted, the Wallet MUST ignore any `redirect_uri` present in a Credential Offer from this Credential Issuer.
```

The Credential Issuer MUST ensure the release of any privacy-sensitive data in Credential Offer is legal.

### Redirect to the Credential Issuer

Because the parameter values in the Credential Offer are not trustworthy, an attacker could inject or manipulate the `redirect_uri` Credential Offer parameter (#credential-offer-parameters) to direct the End-User to an attacker-controlled website, for example, to conduct a phishing attack while leveraging the End-User's trust that they are returning to the Credential Issuer.

> To mitigate this, the Wallet relies on the `expected_redirect_origin` Credential Issuer metadata parameter (#credential-issuer-parameters). Unlike the Credential Offer, the Credential Issuer metadata is retrieved by the Wallet directly from the Credential Issuer over a TLS-protected connection (#credential-issuer-wellknown) and is therefore authenticated. Before offering the End-User the option to follow the `redirect_uri`, the Wallet MUST verify that the origin of the `redirect_uri` matches one of the origins listed in `expected_redirect_origin`, and MUST discard the `redirect_uri` otherwise, including when `expected_redirect_origin` is absent.

Reviewer 2: "Before offering the End-User the option" is inconsistent with the text elsewhere saying "MAY ask the End-User for consent before navigating" - the check needs to happen even if the wallet decides to proceed without offering the user the option.

Reviewer 3: See my comment further up - I think we should just delete this text completely.

Author: the entire security consideration got deleted

> 

Author: Removing the security consideration as it didn't add significant value
```suggestion
```

The Credential Issuer MUST ensure the release of any privacy-sensitive data in Credential Offer is legal.

### Redirect to the Credential Issuer

> Because the Credential Offer is not signed and its origin is not authenticated, an attacker could inject or manipulate the `redirect_uri` Credential Offer parameter (#credential-offer-parameters) to direct the End-User to an attacker-controlled website, for example, to conduct a phishing attack while leveraging the End-User's trust that they are returning to the Credential Issuer.

Reviewer: Can probably just say 

```suggestion

Because the parameter values in the Credential Offer are not trustworthy, an attacker could inject or manipulate the `redirect_uri` Credential Offer parameter (#credential-offer-parameters) to direct the End-User to an attacker-controlled website, for example, to conduct a phishing attack while leveraging the End-User's trust that they are returning to the Credential Issuer.
```

to link it directly to the above section.

> To mitigate this, the Wallet relies on the `expected_redirect_origin` Credential Issuer metadata parameter (#credential-issuer-parameters). Unlike the Credential Offer, the Credential Issuer metadata is retrieved by the Wallet directly from the Credential Issuer over a TLS-protected connection (#credential-issuer-wellknown) and is therefore authenticated. Before offering the End-User the option to follow the `redirect_uri`, the Wallet MUST verify that the origin of the `redirect_uri` matches one of the origins listed in `expected_redirect_origin`, and MUST discard the `redirect_uri` otherwise, including when `expected_redirect_origin` is absent.

Reviewer 3: The guidance here is just repeating normative requirements above. Is it necessary?

Reviewer 3: My concern is mainly that readers will get confused about whether this is really a new requirement and think they have misunderstood something. Also, for certification it is annoying and confusing to have duplicate requirements.
My suggestion would be to try to merge the first sentence explaining the reason into the main text.

> The Wallet MUST NOT navigate to the `redirect_uri` automatically; the redirect MUST be performed only upon explicit End-User interaction. The Wallet SHOULD NOT include any information about the issued Credentials or the outcome of the issuance in the request to the `redirect_uri` beyond what the Credential Issuer encoded in the URL itself.

Reviewer: Remove?

Author: ```suggestion
```
